Storing places in the database is nice but the problem is we got two places there.
But when a reload they're all lost and I only see the freedom places we start with in our code which
are the hard coded places there in which we want to remove eventually of course.
So we now need a way of fetching places instead of just storing them.
And of course we'll do this again by sending an H TTP request to our back end for dad however we'll
need to add a new method because right now we do have that places to gather here.
But the problem with that is this is not really suitable for sending an H request.
I used as in way too many places where I just want to get my current snapshot of the places I have locally.
I don't want to make a new HDP request all these times.
So instead we'll add a new method which will name fetch places here and fetch places should do just
add it should fetch our existing places.
So here we can again use the H to be client and now we'll set a GET request and that gets request of
course should be sent to the same U.R.L..
We send our post request to so the same place where we saw it the same year l we used for creating a
new place so I'll copy that you l and used it up here and we don't need to add a second argument here
because we're not sending any data along.
We also need no special configuration.
So instead we can continue using that response and for that I'll add the pipe method since I will certainly
use a couple of operators here.
For example one thing I want to do for sure is one at the tap.
Operator and then use my place as data.
So my response data here to update the existing list of places I'm working with in his application for
that let's first of all output rest data here to see what's inside so that we can plan our next steps.
We just need to call fetch places somewhere.
And of course we need to make sure that we subscribe here.
So let me return this year so that we can subscribe from inside a component.
And now let's set aside where we want to fetch places.
Well obviously one place where we want to fetch places isn't the offers page here when there's loads
I want to fetch places for sure.
To be precise I don't just want to fetch places your windows loads for the first time but whenever the
view becomes active.
So here I will add I and you will enter it in their I'll reach out to the place's service and call fetch
places.
It doesn't hurt by way that we set up the subscription here because this ensures that whenever we update
the places in our behaviour subject will get notified in this component here and fetch places.
Right now doesn't but soon will update that list of places it will use that behaviour subject.
So this listener does subscription here and our trigger here to fetch new places will work to gather
later.
So here I call fetch places and synced his returns and observable.
We have to call subscribe here.
Otherwise angular will not go ahead and make the H2 DP request if no one is subscribing to the response.
There is no sense in sending the request so we can't just call it like this.
You don't even need to pass some effort here to subscribe.
You could of course but just calling it like this will do.
And therefore let's save this.
And when does page reloads we hopefully soon see some out here on the right that shows us what was fetched
and we do.
And what do you see here is that you get back a javascript object and that's important.
It's not an array.
It's a javascript object where the keys are these unique ideas firebase generated and the values for
the Keys then are these objects that were stored under that idea.
Please note that that's an object without an I.D. field so we'll have to manually extract that key here
and merged with our our data.
So put in our words this state and we fetch your doesn't have the form if we want.
Good thing is we can of course change that and it's not too hard to do so.
Back in the places service we can certainly tap into our data and do something with it but first of
all we need to restructure and change it.
So what I actually will use here is the map operator which takes the response off the observable.
So here our response data and then allows us to return new data that will be wrapped into an observable
difference to switch map by the way that switch map returns a new observable map returns non observable
data that still can be used in the upcoming steps of the observable pipe though.
So here we in the end get our response data.
You can of course always named as whoever you want and get like poses a generic type where we can find
the structure of the data we get back.
Now we learned that this is a javascript object.
In the end we have keys in that object which we don't know in advance because the keys in there are
our unique ideas in typescript.
You tell typescript that you have keys with any name you don't know by adding square brackets here than
any name of your choice like key coal and string.
And then on the then a colon and then on the right side the type of these keys.
So that just means keys with names I don't know you could say.
And then on the right side you have the type of the value inside the key now that in our case is a javascript
object.
So it's that part in here to jobs could object with a way lable from a whale to description image your
l price title and user I.D..
So we could say it's almost our place object here so we could almost say this but what will be missing
is the I.D. field we have everything else but we don't have any ideas in there at all to some of our
types would be wrong for example dates are stored as a string here and not as a date object.
So therefore I will not use my place here.
Instead at the top here all create a new interface to describe that place data could be a name you choose
but the name is totally up to you and then I'll just copy that here and put it in here and replace these
concrete values with their types and this is of course optional you don't have to do that.
I'm doing this to get better order completion and that the typescript compiler yells at me when I start
using data incorrectly.
So I'm simply defining how my response data for places will look like and how we can use to place data
interface in our type definition down there.
So instead of an empty object here we get back various Keys where we don't know the name where each
key will hold place date idea.
Now we get response data which has exactly that format here in the map method and since this is an object
I first of all want to transform this to an array so I'll add a new places array in here and then a
for in loop where I go through my keys in the response data I can add if check here where we see if
rest data has own property key.
This is a recommended practice when having a for in loop and then we can push this object as element
onto our places array to be precise and when I push a new place here and that place now we'll also get
the idea.
The idea here is the key because remember the keys are our unique ideas here.
As return by firebase.
So I pass the key as the first argument.
Second argument is the title.
So that would be rest data for the given key which we access with square brackets because it's a dynamic
value.
Key changes from iteration to duration and then title and then we basically repeat this for the description
and all the other parts.
So for the image you are L etc..
So we access all that data and edit here
here for the price now for the dates I will create new Date object with the date constructor and pass
my available from an available to field values in there.
So let's do this for both dates of course rest data key available to and with that the user I.D. missing
that of course should be added as well.
So here we go.
And now we're constructing a valid place and we're pushing this into our places array so did once we're
done looping through all the keys in our response data.
So through all the objects we fetched essentially we'll have a place as an array with all our well places.
So we're done with everything here and then we just return places.
So the map operator here in our observable chain in the end gets the response data and returns the restructured
response data.
Note this is helpful because it is not allows us to add a next step in that pipe method.
So a new operator which is the tap operator and there will get places and this now is just our array
of places we can now use these places to update our places list here in the service our places behavior
subject by emitting a new event with the places we generated in map.
And does this now making sure that all the places in the app that did subscribe get the latest places.
So if we save that this will now reload and you see here are our places.
Now of course you saw the dummy places at the beginning so let's now actually remove these
and I will just initialize my behavior subject with an empty array then and to still keep the places
around.
I will add them up there commented out so that we still have them if we want to copy some data from
there etc. but we're not using them anymore.
Therefore now if this reloads we start with an empty page.
But once the data is loaded we see it.
Now of course seeing that empty page is not that beautiful.
So adding a spinner makes sense and that is all what we discussed in the last course module with the
UI state.
So let's go to the
offers page where we are fetching places.
Essentially here I want a set loading to true and I want to set it back to faults.
Once we're in the subscribe function so once we have a response so time to add to is loading property
and set it to falls initially that's say and by the way of course you could also inject the loading
controller and set up this overlay loading indicator if you want.
Here I just want to show a spinner on the page.
Hence I'm doing this with is loading and then I will use energy if in the template but both would work
here and I and you will enter with my approach.
I will now set is loading to true and then as I mentioned we pass a function to subscribe.
This will run whenever we have our data.
So once the observable is done so in there all set is loading to falls and thousands we switch is loading
we can use it in our template there to basically hide our row here.
So let's add energy.
If actually doesn't have to be the row should suffice.
To hide the list here.
So here end Jeff only showed us.
If we're not loading and if we have a offers length that is greater than zero.
So we're not loading and we found offers otherwise I want to show a paragraph where all centered a text
where I say no offers found create please create one first.
This should show up if we're not loading and if offers length is smaller or equal than zero.
So this makes sure that we show an appropriate message if we're not loading but we simply didn't fetch
any data because there is none.
And last but not least I'll add the I and spinner a year
for cases where we are loading so is loading is true with that if we go back and we let this reload
we should see the spinner here initially.
Here it is and of course we only see it for a short fraction of a second because firebase is so fast.
But then here is our data now to make this a bit more beautiful.
Also that the color of the spinner to primary and I also want to center this here in my column.
Therefore I'll simply add a div where I put my spinner in and I'll add the NGO for the spinner on that
div because now on the div I can add text center to make sure that that spinner is actually centered
here here is now to see that case where we don't have data.
Let's fake this by going back to the place service and they're temporarily in my map.
Operator I will return an empty array and this basically is the same as if we hadn't fetched any data
and therefore now we should also see the spinner.
But then we see no offers found.
Please create one first.
And of course you can get more fancy there as well.
So here on the offers page we could also convert this paragraph here actually to a div and then still
have our text here but below the text you could add ie and button with a color of primary where you
say offer and you place and then you add Roger link on their website doesn't have to be a dynamic one
router linked like this.
Which leads to places tabs offers new and now that maybe leads to a nicer user experience because now
we can click.
Often you play some were taken to that page right away.
And with that let's go back to the service and comment dissolved and returned to real places instead.
So if we do show the data we actually have so this is how we can fetch data.